README.md, before:

## agentman

Debian-based base image for a coding agent with pinned versions of:
- **Rust** (via `rustup`) + pinned toolchain
- **rust-analyzer** (via `rustup component add`, pinned to toolchain)
- **Go**
- **Bun**
- **uv** + **Python** installed via `uv python install`
- **Java** (via SDKMAN, pinned)
- **DuckDB** (CLI)
- **opencode** (default command under `tini`)

Python is installed using uv per the official guide: `https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/install-python/`.

`opencode` refers to the OpenCode project: `https://github.com/anomalyco/opencode`.

## SSH Gateway

The **agentman-gateway** is a Rust SSH server that provides streamlined access to agent containers. It automatically:

- Authenticates users via SSH public keys (verified against GitHub)
- Creates/manages Docker containers per project
- Persists `/workspace` across sessions
- Supports port forwarding for development workflows

### Quick Start

1. **Start the gateway** on your server:
   ```bash
   # Generate default config
   agentman-gateway --generate-config > /etc/agentman/gateway.toml

   # Run the gateway
   agentman-gateway -c /etc/agentman/gateway.toml
   ```

2. **Connect from your laptop**:
   ```bash
   # First time: provide your GitHub username
   ssh myproject+octocat@agent-server

   # After first auth, just use the project name
   ssh myproject@agent-server
   ```
  Tip: interactive sessions (PTY) attach to `tmux` by default — detach with `Ctrl-b d`, then reconnect to resume. Non-interactive SSH commands (editor bootstrap) are not wrapped in tmux.

3. **Add to ~/.ssh/config** for convenience:
   ```
   Host agent
     HostName agent-server.example.com
     Port 2222
     User myproject+octocat
   ```

   Then simply:
   ```bash
   ssh agent
   ```

### How It Works

```
┌─────────────┐     SSH      ┌──────────────────┐     Docker     ┌─────────────────┐
│  Your       │ ──────────▶  │  agentman-       │ ─────────────▶ │  Agent          │
│  Laptop     │              │  gateway         │                │  Container      │
└─────────────┘              └──────────────────┘                └─────────────────┘
                                    │                                    │
                                    ▼                                    ▼
                             ┌──────────────┐                    ┌───────────────┐
                             │ State Cache  │                    │  /workspace   │
                             │ (key→github) │                    │  (persistent) │
                             └──────────────┘                    └───────────────┘
```

1. **SSH Connection**: You connect to the gateway using `ssh project@gateway`
2. **Key Verification**: Gateway checks your SSH public key against GitHub's API
3. **Container Provisioning**: Creates/starts a container named `project-github-YYYYMMDD`
4. **Workspace Persistence**: Bind-mounts `/var/lib/agentman/workspaces/<github>/<project>` to `/workspace`
5. **Session**: Your interactive shell runs inside the container via Docker exec (attached to a persistent `tmux` session by default when a PTY is requested)

### Authentication Flow

The gateway supports two authentication modes:

**Non-interactive (for editors like Zed/VS Code)**:
```bash
ssh myproject+octocat@gateway
```
The `+octocat` tells the gateway your GitHub username. It verifies your SSH key is in `github.com/octocat.keys` and caches the mapping.

Note: editor integrations typically run non-PTY SSH exec probes (e.g. `ssh -T host "cd; uname -sm"`). The gateway does **not** wrap these in tmux and returns a proper SSH exit status so editors can bootstrap reliably.

**Interactive (first time from terminal)**:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway
# Gateway prompts: "GitHub username: "
# You enter: octocat
# Gateway verifies and caches
```

After the first successful auth, the key→GitHub mapping is cached, so you can just use `ssh myproject@gateway`.

### Port Forwarding

**Local forwarding (`-L`)** — Access container services from your laptop:
```bash
# Forward local:8080 to container:3000
ssh -L 8080:localhost:3000 myproject@gateway
```

**Remote forwarding (`-R`)** — Expose local services to the container:
```bash
# Make localhost:9000 accessible as host.docker.internal:9000 inside the container
ssh -R 9000:localhost:9000 myproject@gateway
```

This is useful for:
- Running a dev server locally and accessing it from the container
- Exposing your local language server to remote code
- Sharing a local database with the container

### Editor Integration

**Zed Editor**:
1. Add to `~/.ssh/config`:
   ```
   Host agent
     HostName your-server.com
     Port 2222
     User myproject+yourgithub
   ```
2. In Zed: `Cmd+Shift+P` → "Remote: Connect to Host..." → `agent`

**VS Code Remote-SSH**:
1. Add same config to `~/.ssh/config`
2. Open Command Palette → "Remote-SSH: Connect to Host..." → `agent`

**Cursor**:
Works the same as VS Code Remote-SSH.

### Configuration

Generate default config:
```bash
agentman-gateway --generate-config
```

Example `/etc/agentman/gateway.toml`:
```toml
listen_addr = "0.0.0.0:2222"
docker_image = "agentman-base:dev"
workspace_root = "/var/lib/agentman/workspaces"
state_file = "/var/lib/agentman/state.json"
host_key_path = "/var/lib/agentman/host_key"

# Pre-authorized GitHub users (auto-matched on first connect)
bootstrap_github_users = ["octocat", "defunkt"]

[shell]
mode = "tmux"
tmux_session = "agentman"

[port_forwarding]
allow_local = true      # Allow -L (local port forward)
allow_remote = true     # Allow -R (remote port forward)
allow_gateway_ports = false  # Bind -R only to loopback
allow_nonlocal_destinations = false  # Only forward to localhost/container

[container_security]
cap_drop_all = true
cap_add = ["CHOWN", "DAC_OVERRIDE", "FOWNER", "SETGID", "SETUID"]
no_new_privileges = true
readonly_rootfs = false
memory_limit = "4g"
cpu_limit = 2.0
use_seccomp = true
```

### Container Security

Containers are created with security hardening by default:

- **No privileged mode**: Containers never run privileged
- **No Docker socket**: Container cannot escape to host via Docker API
- **Capability dropping**: All caps dropped, minimal set re-added
- **No-new-privileges**: Prevents privilege escalation via setuid binaries
- **Seccomp**: Default Docker seccomp profile applied
- **Resource limits**: Memory and CPU limits enforced
- **Isolated networking**: Bridge network only, no host network

The `/workspace` bind-mount is the only host path exposed to containers.

### Container Naming

Containers follow the pattern: `{project}-{github}-{YYYYMMDD}`

Example: `myproject-octocat-20260109`

If multiple containers exist for the same project/user/date, a suffix is added: `myproject-octocat-20260109-1`

### Workspace Persistence

Each `(github_user, project)` pair gets a persistent workspace directory:
```
/var/lib/agentman/workspaces/
└── octocat/
    ├── myproject/
    │   └── (your code here, persisted across container restarts)
    └── another-project/
        └── ...
```

The workspace is bind-mounted to `/workspace` inside the container. This persists across:
- Container restarts
- New container creation (e.g., after image updates)
- Gateway restarts

**Permissions note (important for Zed/VS Code Remote SSH):** the gateway bind-mounts a host directory into `/workspace`. The container runs as a non-root user (UID/GID **1000** by default), so the host workspace directory must be writable by that user. The gateway will attempt to `chown`/`chmod` the workspace directory automatically; if you run the gateway without permission to do that, fix it on the host (or set `workspace_root` to a location with correct ownership).

### Destroying a Sandbox (Kill + Delete Persistent Workspace)

The gateway supports a small set of **control commands** via SSH exec. This lets you stop/remove your sandbox container and optionally delete the persistent workspace directory on the host.

Delete the container(s) **and** the persisted workspace data:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman destroy --yes
```

Stop/remove the container(s) but **keep** the persisted workspace data:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman destroy --keep-workspace
```

Preview what would be deleted:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman destroy --dry-run
```

### Sandbox Control (List / Stop / Pause / Stats)

List all sandboxes for your GitHub user:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman list
```

Stop the **current** sandbox container (keeps the persisted workspace data on disk):
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman stop
```

Pause the **current** sandbox container:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman pause
```

Show CPU/memory and **persisted workspace storage** stats for **all** your sandboxes:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman stats
```

Show stats only for the **current** sandbox:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman stats --current
```

Watch stats (refresh every second) for **all** your sandboxes:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman stats --watch
```

Watch stats only for the **current** sandbox:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman stats --current --watch
```

Note: `agentman exec <cmd>` is accepted as an alias (e.g. `agentman exec stats --current`).

---

## Base Image

### Configure versions

Edit `docker-bake.hcl` (the `variable` defaults near the top), or override via environment variables:
- **Base image**: `DEBIAN_TAG`
- **Tools**: `RUSTUP_VERSION`, `RUST_TOOLCHAIN`, `GO_VERSION`, `BUN_VERSION`, `UV_VERSION`, `PYTHON_VERSION`, `SDKMAN_VERSION`, `JAVA_VERSION`, `DUCKDB_VERSION`, `OPENCODE_VERSION`
- **User**: `USERNAME`, `USER_UID`, `USER_GID`

### Build (local)

Requires Docker BuildKit + buildx.

```bash
./scripts/build.sh
```

Run the image (defaults to running `opencode` under `tini`):

```bash
docker run --rm -it agentman-base:dev
```

To pass flags / arguments to opencode:

```bash
docker run --rm -it agentman-base:dev opencode --help
```

Open a shell instead:

```bash
docker run --rm -it --entrypoint bash agentman-base:dev
```

### Build/push (CI / multi-arch)

Set `PLATFORMS` (example):

```bash
PLATFORMS=linux/amd64,linux/arm64
```

Then:

```bash
./scripts/push.sh
```

---

## Legacy: Direct SSH Access

The Docker image also includes a built-in SSH server for direct container access (without the gateway).

To start a container with SSH enabled:

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name agentman \
  -p 2222:22 \
  -e GITHUB_USERNAME=your-github-username \
  agentman-base:dev
```

Connect:
```bash
ssh -p 2222 agent@localhost
```

**Note**: This legacy mode doesn't provide the gateway's features (automatic container management, persistence, port forwarding to container). Use the gateway for production workflows.

Commit message:

Implement SSH agent forwarding support in the gateway. Updated README with configuration instructions and added agent forwarding settings in the example TOML file. Enhanced SSH handling to manage agent forwarding connections, ensuring secure access to local SSH keys within the container environment. Additionally, updated the setup script to configure Git user details for agentman.

README.md, after:

## agentman

Debian-based base image for a coding agent with pinned versions of:
- **Rust** (via `rustup`) + pinned toolchain
- **rust-analyzer** (via `rustup component add`, pinned to toolchain)
- **Go**
- **Bun**
- **uv** + **Python** installed via `uv python install`
- **Java** (via SDKMAN, pinned)
- **DuckDB** (CLI)
- **opencode** (default command under `tini`)

Python is installed using uv per the official guide: `https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/install-python/`.

`opencode` refers to the OpenCode project: `https://github.com/anomalyco/opencode`.

## SSH Gateway

The **agentman-gateway** is a Rust SSH server that provides streamlined access to agent containers. It automatically:

- Authenticates users via SSH public keys (verified against GitHub)
- Creates/manages Docker containers per project
- Persists `/workspace` across sessions
- Supports port forwarding for development workflows

### Quick Start

1. **Start the gateway** on your server:
   ```bash
   # Generate default config
   agentman-gateway --generate-config > /etc/agentman/gateway.toml

   # Run the gateway
   agentman-gateway -c /etc/agentman/gateway.toml
   ```

2. **Connect from your laptop**:
   ```bash
   # First time: provide your GitHub username
   ssh myproject+octocat@agent-server

   # After first auth, just use the project name
   ssh myproject@agent-server
   ```
  Tip: interactive sessions (PTY) attach to `tmux` by default — detach with `Ctrl-b d`, then reconnect to resume. Non-interactive SSH commands (editor bootstrap) are not wrapped in tmux.

3. **Add to ~/.ssh/config** for convenience:
   ```
   Host agent
     HostName agent-server.example.com
     Port 2222
     User myproject+octocat
   ```

   Then simply:
   ```bash
   ssh agent
   ```

### How It Works

```
┌─────────────┐     SSH      ┌──────────────────┐     Docker     ┌─────────────────┐
│  Your       │ ──────────▶  │  agentman-       │ ─────────────▶ │  Agent          │
│  Laptop     │              │  gateway         │                │  Container      │
└─────────────┘              └──────────────────┘                └─────────────────┘
                                    │                                    │
                                    ▼                                    ▼
                             ┌──────────────┐                    ┌───────────────┐
                             │ State Cache  │                    │  /workspace   │
                             │ (key→github) │                    │  (persistent) │
                             └──────────────┘                    └───────────────┘
```

1. **SSH Connection**: You connect to the gateway using `ssh project@gateway`
2. **Key Verification**: Gateway checks your SSH public key against GitHub's API
3. **Container Provisioning**: Creates/starts a container named `project-github-YYYYMMDD`
4. **Workspace Persistence**: Bind-mounts `/var/lib/agentman/workspaces/<github>/<project>` to `/workspace`
5. **Session**: Your interactive shell runs inside the container via Docker exec (attached to a persistent `tmux` session by default when a PTY is requested)

### Authentication Flow

The gateway supports two authentication modes:

**Non-interactive (for editors like Zed/VS Code)**:
```bash
ssh myproject+octocat@gateway
```
The `+octocat` tells the gateway your GitHub username. It verifies your SSH key is in `github.com/octocat.keys` and caches the mapping.

Note: editor integrations typically run non-PTY SSH exec probes (e.g. `ssh -T host "cd; uname -sm"`). The gateway does **not** wrap these in tmux and returns a proper SSH exit status so editors can bootstrap reliably.

**Interactive (first time from terminal)**:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway
# Gateway prompts: "GitHub username: "
# You enter: octocat
# Gateway verifies and caches
```

After the first successful auth, the key→GitHub mapping is cached, so you can just use `ssh myproject@gateway`.

### Port Forwarding

**Local forwarding (`-L`)** — Access container services from your laptop:
```bash
# Forward local:8080 to container:3000
ssh -L 8080:localhost:3000 myproject@gateway
```

**Remote forwarding (`-R`)** — Expose local services to the container:
```bash
# Make localhost:9000 accessible as host.docker.internal:9000 inside the container
ssh -R 9000:localhost:9000 myproject@gateway
```

This is useful for:
- Running a dev server locally and accessing it from the container
- Exposing your local language server to remote code
- Sharing a local database with the container

### SSH Agent Forwarding (ForwardAgent)

If you enable SSH agent forwarding on your client, the gateway can expose your local SSH agent inside the container as `SSH_AUTH_SOCK`. This lets you use your laptop’s keys for things like GitHub SSH without copying private keys into the sandbox.

Add to your `~/.ssh/config`:

```
Host agent
  ForwardAgent yes
```

Then inside the container:

```bash
echo "$SSH_AUTH_SOCK"
ssh-add -L
```

Security note: any process inside the container can ask your forwarded agent to sign during the lifetime of the SSH connection. Enable only if you trust the remote environment.

### Editor Integration

**Zed Editor**:
1. Add to `~/.ssh/config`:
   ```
   Host agent
     HostName your-server.com
     Port 2222
     User myproject+yourgithub
   ```
2. In Zed: `Cmd+Shift+P` → "Remote: Connect to Host..." → `agent`

**VS Code Remote-SSH**:
1. Add same config to `~/.ssh/config`
2. Open Command Palette → "Remote-SSH: Connect to Host..." → `agent`

**Cursor**:
Works the same as VS Code Remote-SSH.

### Configuration

Generate default config:
```bash
agentman-gateway --generate-config
```

Example `/etc/agentman/gateway.toml`:
```toml
listen_addr = "0.0.0.0:2222"
docker_image = "agentman-base:dev"
workspace_root = "/var/lib/agentman/workspaces"
state_file = "/var/lib/agentman/state.json"
host_key_path = "/var/lib/agentman/host_key"

# Pre-authorized GitHub users (auto-matched on first connect)
bootstrap_github_users = ["octocat", "defunkt"]

[shell]
mode = "tmux"
tmux_session = "agentman"

[port_forwarding]
allow_local = true      # Allow -L (local port forward)
allow_remote = true     # Allow -R (remote port forward)
allow_gateway_ports = false  # Bind -R only to loopback
allow_nonlocal_destinations = false  # Only forward to localhost/container

[agent_forwarding]
allow = true  # Allow ForwardAgent / SSH_AUTH_SOCK inside the container

[container_security]
cap_drop_all = true
cap_add = ["CHOWN", "DAC_OVERRIDE", "FOWNER", "SETGID", "SETUID"]
no_new_privileges = true
readonly_rootfs = false
memory_limit = "4g"
cpu_limit = 2.0
use_seccomp = true
```

### Container Security

Containers are created with security hardening by default:

- **No privileged mode**: Containers never run privileged
- **No Docker socket**: Container cannot escape to host via Docker API
- **Capability dropping**: All caps dropped, minimal set re-added
- **No-new-privileges**: Prevents privilege escalation via setuid binaries
- **Seccomp**: Default Docker seccomp profile applied
- **Resource limits**: Memory and CPU limits enforced
- **Isolated networking**: Bridge network only, no host network

The `/workspace` bind-mount is the only host path exposed to containers.

### Container Naming

Containers follow the pattern: `{project}-{github}-{YYYYMMDD}`

Example: `myproject-octocat-20260109`

If multiple containers exist for the same project/user/date, a suffix is added: `myproject-octocat-20260109-1`

### Workspace Persistence

Each `(github_user, project)` pair gets a persistent workspace directory:
```
/var/lib/agentman/workspaces/
└── octocat/
    ├── myproject/
    │   └── (your code here, persisted across container restarts)
    └── another-project/
        └── ...
```

The workspace is bind-mounted to `/workspace` inside the container. This persists across:
- Container restarts
- New container creation (e.g., after image updates)
- Gateway restarts

**Permissions note (important for Zed/VS Code Remote SSH):** the gateway bind-mounts a host directory into `/workspace`. The container runs as a non-root user (UID/GID **1000** by default), so the host workspace directory must be writable by that user. The gateway will attempt to `chown`/`chmod` the workspace directory automatically; if you run the gateway without permission to do that, fix it on the host (or set `workspace_root` to a location with correct ownership).

### Destroying a Sandbox (Kill + Delete Persistent Workspace)

The gateway supports a small set of **control commands** via SSH exec. This lets you stop/remove your sandbox container and optionally delete the persistent workspace directory on the host.

Delete the container(s) **and** the persisted workspace data:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman destroy --yes
```

Stop/remove the container(s) but **keep** the persisted workspace data:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman destroy --keep-workspace
```

Preview what would be deleted:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman destroy --dry-run
```

### Sandbox Control (List / Stop / Pause / Stats)

List all sandboxes for your GitHub user:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman list
```

Stop the **current** sandbox container (keeps the persisted workspace data on disk):
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman stop
```

Pause the **current** sandbox container:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman pause
```

Show CPU/memory and **persisted workspace storage** stats for **all** your sandboxes:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman stats
```

Show stats only for the **current** sandbox:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman stats --current
```

Watch stats (refresh every second) for **all** your sandboxes:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman stats --watch
```

Watch stats only for the **current** sandbox:
```bash
ssh myproject@gateway agentman stats --current --watch
```

Note: `agentman exec <cmd>` is accepted as an alias (e.g. `agentman exec stats --current`).

---

## Base Image

### Configure versions

Edit `docker-bake.hcl` (the `variable` defaults near the top), or override via environment variables:
- **Base image**: `DEBIAN_TAG`
- **Tools**: `RUSTUP_VERSION`, `RUST_TOOLCHAIN`, `GO_VERSION`, `BUN_VERSION`, `UV_VERSION`, `PYTHON_VERSION`, `SDKMAN_VERSION`, `JAVA_VERSION`, `DUCKDB_VERSION`, `OPENCODE_VERSION`
- **User**: `USERNAME`, `USER_UID`, `USER_GID`

### Build (local)

Requires Docker BuildKit + buildx.

```bash
./scripts/build.sh
```

Run the image (defaults to running `opencode` under `tini`):

```bash
docker run --rm -it agentman-base:dev
```

To pass flags / arguments to opencode:

```bash
docker run --rm -it agentman-base:dev opencode --help
```

Open a shell instead:

```bash
docker run --rm -it --entrypoint bash agentman-base:dev
```

### Build/push (CI / multi-arch)

Set `PLATFORMS` (example):

```bash
PLATFORMS=linux/amd64,linux/arm64
```

Then:

```bash
./scripts/push.sh
```

---

## Legacy: Direct SSH Access

The Docker image also includes a built-in SSH server for direct container access (without the gateway).

To start a container with SSH enabled:

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name agentman \
  -p 2222:22 \
  -e GITHUB_USERNAME=your-github-username \
  agentman-base:dev
```

Connect:
```bash
ssh -p 2222 agent@localhost
```

**Note**: This legacy mode doesn't provide the gateway's features (automatic container management, persistence, port forwarding to container). Use the gateway for production workflows.
